Hello students and welcome in this short lecture we're going to talk about input output redirection.
This is also one of the competencies in your domain.
The first domain of this test.
So what that is actually is instead when we run a command at the at the Seelye in Linux some time you
want to send the output somewhere else.
Are you trying to manipulate the output you don't want to see it that way it's coming because it's either
not readable or you want to save it because you send it or you want to send it over somewhere because
you want to get the output so you can archive it for later on.
And here are some examples that the domain of mentions.
This is redirect as Judy out to a file.
This is the second one is a redirect and append the third one is called a pipe.
Gets used a lot especially when we get into processors and how to manage processes.
I think is the third or fourth domain.
We can't talk about it even more.
And this is redirect error.
The redirect the standard error is used specifically in shell scripting.
So you have a shout that you shellscript that you have created and you can send redirect to a file which
only has get content when your script has some error in it.
So these are a little bit more of a definition.
I wanted to point out redirects Studi out to a file.
This one redirect SDD out and append to a file.
Meaning not only get that you're getting the output from the command that you're going to run by can
append to it also.
And we'll talk about it in a minute.
And we actually run and these are pipes of course.
And the end redirect SDD are standard error.
So currently we are logged into the user Larry and right now he only has one file on it so let's create
a more files file one of your touch file one file to file three.
So now we've got four files of four files all together in one is the script which we're going to use
later.
And the other three are just touched.
So I want to do it.
LS So far you have seen me using just LS formalistic but this time instead of seeing it on the screen
I wanted to go to.
So you do a shift and then there's greater size.
And this is the redirect.
And I want to send it to file listing.
So you see they didn't list anything on the screen this time.
Why.
Because I have redirected to file listing.
And as you can see it has automatically the file listing wasn't even there before it created that file
and put the listing in there.
And less to make sure that actually did that.
We'll do more.
We can either do more our cat to look at a file kit.
So let's do a cat instead file listing and guess what.
It's got everything that Alice was supposed to show you on the screen instead of showing on the screen.
It put it in that file now we're going to use the same command but instead we get her to the redirect
in the past let's see what happened in this one.
So we do.
LS and stood up one grader decided we're going to have to file listing.
OK so we still have the file listing file.
But look at the content now.
File system.
And as you can see the content has doubled.
It had whatever it previously had.
And then it appended it again because are giving it to the greater than signs.
So we are saying that redirect and append as well.
Now we're going to use them more our pipe command.
So let's see it is a very important directory.
There are a lot of configuration files that reside there and we want to see it few lines at a time.
OK.
Because it might scroll off the screen.
So we'll do a pipe and
more and then enter.
So as you can see it this goes all the way to the bottom and then there's more at the bottom.
And when you have this you can either hit enter to see one line at a time and there are way too many
lines and you want to see next page you can hit the space bar.
There you go.
And it keeps giving me page after page of what is listed under slashy DC that many files are listed
under slash.
DC.
And last bit up this lecture is a redirect.
Standard Error.
So I help that you probably saw my files called my script I've created this script and days intentionally
or mistakenly The script is too complex.
I mean we are getting into scripting right now but asking to remove a system file which doesn't exist.
So on purpose you know we made this error when we'll see how the redirect takes care of it.
So we're going to say this is how you write a script doc slash and it's my script.
And also you can type the first couple of characters and hit the tab key and complete your command for
you.
Let's if they are more then one command in that subdirectory which are identical to modify a file one
file to file three.
Then if you type f I try to tab that the system doesn't know which file you're talking about.
5 1 5 2 5 3 right.
In that case you have to type the whole thing.
But since the script my script is the only file with that name I just typed in my and just kept it and
it finished the whole thing and now I'm going to use the redirect and I'm going to send it to a file
called error file.
So your file doesn't exist right now or is going to send the error to this file and create that file
and send the error to that file.
OK.
So it's showing you on the screen as well that this is the error error code to D6.
And let's see what the
and this are Eriphyle.
And I'm going to do more on file and this is the actual error.
It's telling you that you have a command in there to remove something and that file or directory doesn't
exist or we cannot remove it.
So this is how the redirect.
And just like any other topic this topic is fairly broad as well.
There are a lot of ways you can use it.
But as far as your exam is concerned this should be sufficient if you want to research it more you know
you can definitely do the man pages or search it online and get more information if you want me to elaborate
further.
Please make sure to leave a comment and any other confusion about or something I'll definitely explain
to you.